>> Scott Moss: All right, so
let's check out making our own routes.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna
make a route for a developer API.
We want people to develop and,
or actually, before I do that,
I think someone asked me how to develop
an API that was OpenAPI spec compatible.
I think somebody asked me that.
I added some notes on that.
And the short answer is there is no
official way to do it in Next.js.
There's been tons of people in
the community have made it possible.
After researching and trying a bunch of
stuff, I found the best way to do it was
actually to use this package right
here called Next SwaggerDoc and
Swagger UI React.
It essentially looks at,
I guess it's very similar to how you
would do it in Python with a doc string.
It looks at your comments and
it can go from that and create the spec,
and also create the UI for it as well.
So, I left the link here if
anybody wants to check that out.
But this is the best that
I could find to do this.
There was no official way to do it.
Other than that, let's make our route.
So we're gonna create some routes for
our developer API.
We want people to be able
to get all the issues,
create an issue, and then get one issue.
So we're gonna make routes for that.
So I'm gonna go here,
I'm gonna delete this user one,
get out of here, and
make a new folder for issue.
And sibling to that,
I'll make a new folder.
Wait, no, that's the only one I need.
So issue and then inside of issue
I'll make a new folder for id,
since we wanna get one issue.
And then inside of that
I'll make a route.ts.
Right above that I'll make
a new file called route.ts.
So for the ones without the ID,
if you just follow rest,
this would allow me to get all
the issues and then create one issue.
If I followed rest and
the ID one would let me delete one issue,
update one issue, get one issue.
So let's do this.
So let's get all issues.
So I'll say, export const
GET And then we have the one for post.
We'll do that in a minute.
So we wanna get all the issues,
should be pretty simple.
We're not gonna make it production-ready
and do all the things that we need to do
that you would typically do for
Production app.
X request, there we go.
So it should be pretty simple,
because again, we're on the back end, so
we can do the same stuff that we've
been doing on the server actions.
And this one's pretty simple,
we just wanna just grab all the issues and
send them back.
So, let's do that.
And then, in the case where we fail,
we can change the status
code to something else.
So let's do that.
So I'll say, issues equals
await db.query.issues.findmany,
let's just grab every
issue in the database.
We'll do that, and
then we'll return NextResponse.json.
I always like to return an object
with a data property on it so
it's consistent, and just return issues.
Otherwise, let's log this.
And we'll return NextResponse.,
you can return JSON here if you want.
If you wanna send back like a message,
like send back error if there's an error.
And I'll say, nah.
And then, you can change the status,
or actually, I think it's here now.
Yeah, you change the status to
whatever you want in this case.
You couldn't get this, it errored.
That's on us.
There's no reason why
you couldn't get this.
So if it broke, that's our problem.
So, 500.
Cool, we got that.
Let's test this out.
So we're gonna go here, I say, issues,
change this to get, and send this request.
It's issue.
Method, I swear I changed that to git.
There we go.
There we go, there's all my issues.
Cool, do the same thing for
creating an issue.
So for this one we do wanna get the body.
I'll say, newIssue = awaits
db.insert(issues).values.
I want to insert await.
I gotta import issues up here.
What do you mean?
No, that comes from schemas.
Yeah, schemas.
Okay, so then I got to await rec.json.
That's gonna be the value.
Whatever object they pass up,
that's what we'll put in here
to insert to the database.
And, actually let's try catch this.
Cool, got a new issue.
And then I'll just return that
NextResponse Data, and for
this one, Drizzle's always
gonna return an array here.
So I just wanna return, I'll just say new.
I'll just do this.
And it's freaking out, it's like,
hey, that might not be there.
No, I gotta do .return here, actually.
There we go.
There it is.
And then if it's an error,
same thing, console.error this.
This case,
it actually might not be a firewriter,
cuz they might have set
up the wrong thing.
This is where you wanna validate.
This is why I was like,
hey, I'm gonna validate the form
on the server action, the inputs.
Because if there's an API route,
I'd validate that here.
I'll do the same thing.
I set up schemas and validate
stuff before I touch the database.
Okay, let's try to create an issue.
Let me just look at the schema right quick
to see what an issue needs before I do it.
So issue needs a title, and that's it.
Everything else is either not needed or
already has a default.
So it just needs a title.
So we can just go make
an issue with the title.
So let's do that.
So I'll change this to post.
I'll go to my body, put a title here.
Normal mode.
And I'll send this up.
We got a nah,
let's see what the error was.
Felling roll contains [INAUDIBLE].
Need a user id.
Let's get the current user.
Yeah, we can just use,
this is where the flexibility comes in.
I can just say, user = await get
cetCurrentUser.
I can just use that function.
It works on the server.
And then issues, need a map over these.
Not these, this right here.
This needs a, Let's get this,
newIssueData equals that.
This is userId, I'm guessing,
that's what it's gonna be called.
And then, newIssueData.
What we wanna do now is we were making
the post request to create an issue.
We need to make sure that
the issue has a user ID on it.
Because I'm using a HTTP client
that doesn't have a session cookie,
I'd have to add the JSON web token here
in the cookie, which I don't want to.
Instead, I'm just gonna have
this thing sent up, the user ID.
So what I can do is,
I got my Drizzle Studio working.
I had it running on another tab over here,
so I had to stop that.
Now I'm here.
And now it works, so I can go here to
Drizzle Studio, it'll show me my database.
I'm gonna grab this user's ID right here,
gonna go back into my project.
Gonna make a post request to
localhost3000/API/issue.
I'm going to add a body of JSON,
give it a title of new issue here.
Give it a user ID of that user ID,
and hit Send.
And there we go,
created a new issue for this user.
And then the last one we
wanna do is get one issue.
So I'm gonna go into
my/API/issue/id route.ts.
I'm going to export a GET
request to get one issue here.
I'm going to get the request, and
then I'm gonna get the params.
I'll go ahead and type check these.
I know I got got those
folks that really like it.
So, Next Request.
And then for params, or actually,
it'll be like Something like that.
Okay, so,
I believe we still have to await this.
So I'll do, wait params,
get the id, and then issue will be
wait db.query.issues.findFirst where,
Issues.id is the id, but
I think I need to parse int that id maybe.
And I'm just gonna try catch this.
Cool, and if we don't find it,
Where does return.
JSON here, I'll just put an error here.
And status, I'll just put 404, whatever.
If we do find it, I'll just return it.
Cool.
So we can try this.
Let's grab an issue.
So if I go here, I grab, this issue is 11.
So I can go here, I'll make a,
we can go back to this one.
Get request to/API/issues/that ID.
I don't need anything in a body to GET
requests, so it shouldn't send it anyway.
There we go, get the issue back.
It's pretty simple.
Because it's using standard web
stuff when it comes to request and
response, everything's pretty
much compatible with it.
So if you wanna add a GraphQL server,
every GraphQL server from Apollo to
GraphQL Yoga to, pick your flavor,
works with this because
they all support the specs.
So you can pretty much do anything.
There's frameworks that people have
built on top of this to make it feel and
look more like Express.js,
if that's something you want.
But, yeah, I mean,
TRPCS is a good use case.
People use this for, it's like, it's so
easy to use this, in my opinion.
And really, I didn't import anything from
Next.js other than these two things,
which are really just like
wrappers around this.
I don't have to use these, I could use
just the native response if I wanted.
It's just a lot more work to Get.json.
There's just a wrapper around that.
Yeah, there really isn't
that much more to it.
Like I said,
there are some special things.
But the reason I didn't show that
is because it depends on whether or
not you deploy to Vercel or not.
So I was like, eh, I don't wanna show
stuff that's only specific to Vercel and
doesn't work if you deploy
this somewhere else.
But there are some other
things that you can do.
Like I mentioned, being able to,
a very common use case is if you ever had
to make a handler for a webhook is, when
a service hits your route as a webhook,
like, let's say Stripe hits your API.
You want to immediately
respond back as quickly as
possible to acknowledge
that you got the request.
But there's probably some work you
need to do when that comes in.
So, Stripe hits your API and it's like,
hey, this person's charge failed.
Okay, there's some work
that you need to do.
You don't want Stripe waiting on you to do
that work, cuz what if that work fails?
Do you send Stripe back an error?
Well, if Stripe got that error, to Stripe,
that means you didn't get the webhook.
So they're gonna send it again.
That's not actually the case.
So when you receive a webhook, you want
to respond back with a 200 as quickly as
possible to acknowledge that you got it,
and then you wanna do your work.
Well, that's impossible in serverless,
because as soon as you respond,
you stop executing code.
You can't do anything after this.
So if I respond back to Stripe,
how do I do something?
So typically what you would do
is you would use a background,
you have another job queue,
a queuing system that's event driven, and
then you queue the job up and
you go do something.
That's a way.
The other way you can do it is Vercel or
Next.js through hosting on Vercel
allows you to respond immediately and
then wait until all your work is done
before the service function shuts down.
So even though you responded immediately,
the function continues to run the code
that you want it to wait for
even though you already ended the request.
So that's a really good use case.
And then as far as databases and
stuff like that, It's the same.
Well, I guess it is, I do want to mention,
when it comes to serverless,
that for a serverless environment,
you have to have a serverless database.
You can't use a database
that isn't HTTP based.
I mean, you can, but you'll have problems.
Because most databases have long
lived connections with pooling.
But the way serverless works
is that it's spinning up a vm,
running your function and then shutting
it down at its most naive implementation.
So you aren't on a traditional
long-lived server that's pooling
connections across requests.
So if that database even works,
you will for
sure run into pooling connection issues.
Most databases have pooling limits
in which they can only connect so
many connections before
they don't do it anymore.
You'll have memory issues,
you'll have cold start issues.
So typically,
you wanna use an HTTP-based database,
AKA a serverless database,
for your serverless API.
Neon is a serverless database, so
it kinda works perfectly for Next.js.
And almost any modern database
today has some serverless offering.
If you want Postgres, there's five, six
serverless Postgres databases out there.
You want SQL, same thing.
There's tons of them.
So, just remember that you want to make
sure you have a serverless database,
or I should say, HTTP-based database.
Okay, this-
>> Speaker 2: I think of one question on
API stuff.
I'm assuming all the same conventions for
the router is the same of, you can create
route groups and spread dynamic params and
everything in your directories.
>> Scott Moss: I've never created
route groups with the API, but
you can definitely spread.
Yeah, route groups.
>> Speaker 2: I don't know why you would.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I don't know why you
would, because you don't have layouts, so
there's no point.
But the spread definitely works.
Yeah, or they used to.
I haven't tried it yet, so
[LAUGH] don't quote me on definitely.
It used to, I haven't tried it, so
I cannot say that it still does.
But yeah,
I don't think the route groups do.